Earlier, you used an intuitive
approach to fill out
the upper left corner of the
minimum edit distance table.
Now I'll show you how to use
a formulaic approach
to fill out the rest.
So you filled out some
of the table already,
and it looks like this.
Now, to fill out the
rest of the table,
you must first fill out
the remaining cells
of the leftmost
column and top row.
In fact, you know that to
Transform play into
an empty string,
you can just delete each letter.
So let's try that.
You can fill out these
cells top-to-bottom by
following this formula
for each cell.
Look at the cell above
and add the cost of
an extra delete edit,
which will be one.
This means that to make
the string p into
the empty string,
do on delete operation as
shown in the previous example.
To turn the string pl
into the empty string,
the leads p and deletes l,
which are two deletes
operations and so on.
Now at D(4,0) you have
the minimum edit distance for
play to the empty string,
which of course is just the
cost of four deletes four.
You can use the same idea in
the first row by transforming
the empty string to stay by
inserting one letter at a time.
You do that by following this
slightly different formula,
working from the
left to the right,
look at the previous cell and
add a further inserts costs one.
Looks good so far in
the previous example,
I showed you how to calculate
this cell without formulas.
But you can also
find the solution by
applying this big,
scary-looking formula.
It's builds upon the
computation's you've already made
in just the same way as
using the no formula method.
Some of this might feel like it's
repeating what you just learned.
What it's valuable to
see the formulas too,
especially when getting ready
for the end of week assignment.
So the distance to this
orange cell is going to be
the minimum distance to reach it
from any of the
previous three cells.
Interesting, right?
It might seem a little
bit abstract at first,
but you can break it
down into smaller parts.
For example, if you come
from the cell above,
you will add the delete costs
just like you did in
the first column.
If you come from this
cell to the left,
you will add an inserts
costs just like you
did in the top row,
and if you come from this
cell to the upper left,
you'll do one of two things
either at the replace cost if
the two-letter
source I and targets
J don't match or add
nothing if they don't,
because there is
no edit to be done
for letters that's
are already the same.
Here for this cell
you have the minimum
of one plus one, which is two.
Another one plus
one, which is two.
Since these two
letters don't match,
you have zero plus two,
which is also two.
Then you take the minimum
of all three of these,
which is a2 in this case.
Place that value in the cell.
This is the minimum
edit distance from p to
s. By using the formula
and costs defined.
You can then fill out the rest
of the table the same way,
with the (m,n) entry in
the bottom right corner being
the minimum edit distance
from play to stay,
which is four adding
color coding or a heatmap
reveals some
interesting patterns.
Can you see what's happened from
the middle square? That's right.
Once you get from pl to st,
the suffix of both
words is the same
a-y so there are no
more edits needed.
That's why these for
carries down the diagonal.
Now you know how to build
a minimum edit distance algorithm
efficiently using a table.
Well done. There are
a few things worth
noting about this style of
implementation before you go,
I'll show you those next.